Updates to "Apply a platform config change" (#3156)
astronomer/docs: software/apply-platform-config.md

description: Apply platform-wide configuration changes to Astronomer via Helm.
---

Astronomer Software uses [Helm](https://helm.sh/) to install and manage some platform-level settings that apply to all users and Deployments. The [Astronomer Helm chart](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer/blob/master/values.yaml) includes configurations for areas such as:

- [Identity provider integrations](integrate-auth-system.md)
- [Registry backends](registry-backend.md)
- [Resource allocation limits](configure-platform-resources.md)

> All Astronomer Software platform customizations can be applied to your cluster using a YAML configuration. `config.yaml` contains settings for both the Astronomer Helm chart, as well as Helm charts for system components like [ElasticSearch](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer/blob/master/charts/elasticsearch/values.yaml) and [nginx](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer/blob/master/charts/nginx/values.yaml). Using Helm allows you to keep all of your configurations in a single file that you can version and store securely. Use this document to learn how to retrieve your existing Helm configuration, modify configurations, and apply your changes to your Astronomer Software cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can apply any Astronomer Software platform customizations to your cluster using a YAML configuration. `config.yaml` contains settings for both the Astronomer Helm chart, as well as Helm charts for system components like [ElasticSearch](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer/blob/master/charts/elasticsearch/values.yaml) and [nginx](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer/blob/master/charts/nginx/values.yaml). Using Helm allows you to keep all of your configurations in a single file that you can version and store securely. 

Use this document to learn how to retrieve your existing Helm configuration, modify configurations, and apply your changes to your Astronomer Software cluster.
```

Not sure if the line break is really needed, definitely an edit of "this feels right" instead of a firm rule.

## Step 1: Retrieve your current cluster configuration

The best way to add or modify configurations is to start with your existing `config.yaml` file. To retrieve the current `config.yaml` file of an existing Software cluster, run the following command:

> ```sh

Reviewer: Recently we had a couple PR's switch from using `sh` to `bash` for the code examples because the preformatting wasn't showing up in the built docs. Should these be changed too?

> ```sh

Author: ```suggestion
```bash
```

helm get values -o yaml <your-installation-release-name> -n <your-installation-namespace> > config.yaml
```

Alternatively, your team might use version management to store your existing Helm configuration. In this case, retrieve, update, and store your configuration file according to your team's workflows.

## Step 2: Update your configurations

<!--- Version-specific -->

1. Create a copy of your `config.yaml` file so that you can compare your existing configuration to your new configuration. 

> 2. In your copied file, update the values for the configurations you want to change. To update a configuration you haven't already specified, copy the corresponding default values from the relevant [default Helm chart](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer/tree/master/charts) into your `config.yaml` file and modify the value from there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In your copied file, update the values for the configurations you want to change. To update a configuration you haven't already specified, copy the corresponding default values from the relevant [default Helm chart](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer/tree/master/charts) into your `config.yaml` file and then modify the value.
```

description: Apply platform-wide configuration changes to Astronomer via Helm.
---

Astronomer Software uses [Helm](https://helm.sh/) to manage platform-level settings that apply to all users and Deployments. The [Astronomer Helm chart](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer/blob/master/values.yaml) includes configurations for areas such as:

- [Identity provider integrations](integrate-auth-system.md)
- [Registry backends](registry-backend.md)
- [Resource allocation limits](configure-platform-resources.md)

> All Astronomer Software platform customizations require setting key-value pairs in a file named `config.yaml` and applying the file to your cluster. `config.yaml` contains settings for both the Astronomer Helm chart, as well Helm charts for system components like [ElasticSearch](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer/blob/master/charts/elasticsearch/values.yaml) and [nginx](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer/blob/master/charts/nginx/values.yaml). Using Helm allows you to keep all of your configurations in a single file that you can version and store securely. Use this document to learn how retrieve your existing Helm configuration, modify configurations, and apply your changes to your Astronomer Software cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
All Astronomer Software platform customizations require setting key-value pairs in a file named `config.yaml` and applying the file to your cluster. `config.yaml` contains settings for both the Astronomer Helm chart, as well Helm charts for system components like [ElasticSearch](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer/blob/master/charts/elasticsearch/values.yaml) and [nginx](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer/blob/master/charts/nginx/values.yaml). Using Helm allows you to keep all of your configurations in a single file that you can version and store securely. Use this document to learn how to retrieve your existing Helm configuration, modify configurations, and apply your changes to your Astronomer Software cluster.
```

> All Astronomer Software platform customizations require setting key-value pairs in a file named `config.yaml` and applying the file to your cluster. `config.yaml` contains settings for both the Astronomer Helm chart, as well Helm charts for system components like [ElasticSearch](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer/blob/master/charts/elasticsearch/values.yaml) and [nginx](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer/blob/master/charts/nginx/values.yaml). Using Helm allows you to keep all of your configurations in a single file that you can version and store securely. Use this document to learn how to retrieve your existing Helm configuration, modify configurations, and apply your changes to your Astronomer Software cluster.

Reviewer 2: > l Astronomer Software platform customizations require setting key-value pairs

This is technically not correct. The way this is stated would indicate that there is no value hierarchy. The config.yaml (which happens to be an arbitrary filename, and actually by default is [values.yaml](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/values_files/)) is not just key value pairs, it's structured hierarchical data.

## Step 1: Retrieve your current cluster configuration

The best way to add or modify configurations is to start with your existing `config.yaml` file. To retrieve the current `config.yaml` file of an existing Software cluster, run the following command:

```sh
helm get values <your-installation-release-name> -n <your-installation-namespace> > config.yaml
```

:::caution

> When you retrieve your file this way, delete `USER-SUPPLIED VALUES:` from the first line before changing any other configurations.

Reviewer 2: If you use `-o yaml`, the output is valid yaml:
```
$ helm get values -n development astrodev | head -n 5
USER-SUPPLIED VALUES:
alertmanager:
  receivers:
    airflow:
      webhook_configs:
```
```
$ helm get values -n development astrodev -o yaml | head -n 5
alertmanager:
  receivers:
    airflow:
      webhook_configs:
      - send_resolved: true
```

:::

Alternatively, your team might use version management to store your existing Helm configuration. In this case, retrieve, update, and store your configuration file according to your team's workflows.

## Step 2: Update key-value pairs for your configurations

<!--- Version-specific -->

1. Create a copy of your `config.yaml` file so that you can compare your existing configuration to your new configuration. 

> 2. In your copied file, update the key-value pairs for the settings you want to change. To update a setting you haven't already specified, copy the corresponding key-value pair from the relevant [default Helm chart](https://github.com/astronomer/astronomer/tree/master/charts) into your `config.yaml` file and modify the value from there.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> copy the corresponding key-value pair from the relevant
```

I'm not sure what the right wording is here, but it's not `key-value pair`. As noted above, this is structured, heirarchical data, and instructing people about how to merge nested data isn't really easy if they are unfamiliar with how it works.

:::

## Step 3: Push changes to your Astronomer Software cluster

1. Copy your platform namespace and release name. These are both likely to be `astronomer`. Your platform release name can be found in your list of active namespaces, which you can view by running the following command:

    ```zsh
    kubectl get ns
    ```

    To locate your platform release name, run:

    ```zsh
    helm ls -n <your-platform-namespace>
    ```

2. Save your updated `config.yaml` file and run the following command to apply it as a Helm upgrade:

    ```zsh
    helm upgrade <your-platform-release-name> astronomer/astronomer -f <your-updated-config-yaml-file> -n <your-platform-namespace> --set astronomer.houston.upgradeDeployments.enabled=false
    ```

    Setting `astronomer.houston.upgradeDeployments.enabled=false` ensures that no Airflow components in Deployments are restarted during your upgrade.

3. Run the following command to confirm that your configuration was applied:

>     ```zsh

Reviewer 2: FWIW specifying `zsh` instead of `sh` usually doesn't give you anything extra. https://gist.github.com/vidaaudrey/14b121a491d889af019e#file-markdown-syntax-highlighting-L3258-L3261
